README.md, before:

# Unofficial Linux drivers for HP ProLiant MicroServer G7 N54L

This repository contains unofficial Linux drivers for the HP ProLiant
Microserver G7 N54L.

## Drivers

### I2C Driver for accessing voltage, temperature and fan values

The project contains a backport of the *i2c_piix4* kernel module from
Linux 4.5 that allows one to access the Winbond W83795ADG in order to read
sensor values with lm-sensors. The module is confirmed to work with Kernel
3.13 onwards.

After installation of the DKMS module, issue the following commands to reload
the respective modules:

    # rmmod w83795 jc42 i2c_piix4
    # modprobe -a i2c_piix4 jc42 w83795

The sensors values can now be accessed using the `sensors` command.

When manually installed, the file `config/modules-load.d/hp-n54l.conf` has to
be copied to `/etc/modules-load.d/hp-n54l.conf` in order to automatically load
the modules after reboot.

The file `config/sensors.d/hp-n54l.conf` configures limits and label names for
`sensors`. Issue `# sensors -s` to reload the file after copying it to
`/etc/sensors.d/hp-n54l.conf`.

## Installation

The modified drivers can be built and installed using DKMS either
manually or through the included Debian package.

### Manual installation with DKMS

DKMS (Dynamic Kernel Module Support) enables generating Linux kernel modules
outside the kernel source tree. It rebuilds the modules automatically
when a new kernel is installed.

The content of this repository has to be copied to
`/usr/src/hp-n54l-<VERSION>`. The following commands install the DKMS
module:

    # dkms add -m hp-n54l -v <VERSION>
    # dkms build -m hp-n54l -v <VERSION>
    # dkms install -m hp-n54l -v <VERSION>

To remove the module:

    # dkms remove -m hp-n54l -v <VERSION>

### Installation of the Debian package

On Debian based distributions `debuild -us -uc` can be used to package
the drivers into a `hp-n54l-dkms\*_all.deb` file which can be installed
using `dpkg -i`.

On Ubuntu the drivers can be installed from the following [Personal Package
Archive (PPA)](https://launchpad.net/~fetzer-ch/+archive/ubuntu/hp-n54l)

## License

Packaging and patches copyright 2015 Christian Fetzer. Kernel modules are part
or Linux. Linux is copyrighted by Linus Torvalds and others.
This project is licensed under the terms of the GNU General Public License
(GPL-2+).

Commit message:

debian: Blacklist the conflicting watchdog module (sp5100_tco)
Install a blacklist file that prevents sp5100_tco from being loaded.
The modules i2c_piix4 and sp5100_tco conflict which leads to the
following errors.

Error if i2c_piix4 is loaded before sp5100_tco:
piix4_smbus 0000:00:14.0: SMBus Host Controller at 0xb00, revision 0
piix4_smbus 0000:00:14.0: Auxiliary SMBus Host Controller at 0xb20
sp5100_tco: SP5100/SB800 TCO WatchDog Timer Driver v0.05
sp5100_tco: PCI Vendor ID: 0x1002, Device ID: 0x4385, Revision ID: 0x42
sp5100_tco: I/O address 0x0cd6 already in use

Error if sp5100_tco is loaded before i2c_piix4:
sp5100_tco: SP5100/SB800 TCO WatchDog Timer Driver v0.05
sp5100_tco: PCI Revision ID: 0x42
sp5100_tco: Using 0xfed80b00 for watchdog MMIO address
sp5100_tco: Last reboot was not triggered by watchdog.
sp5100_tco: initialized (0xffffc90000378b00). heartbeat=60 sec (nowayout=0)
piix4_smbus 0000:00:14.0: SMBus base address index region 0xcd6 already in use!
piix4_smbus: probe of 0000:00:14.0 failed with error -16

README.md, after:

# Unofficial Linux drivers for HP ProLiant MicroServer G7 N54L

This repository contains unofficial Linux drivers for the HP ProLiant
Microserver G7 N54L.

## Drivers

### I2C Driver for accessing voltage, temperature and fan values

The project contains a backport of the *i2c_piix4* kernel module from
Linux 4.5 that allows one to access the Winbond W83795ADG in order to read
sensor values with lm-sensors. The module is confirmed to work with Kernel
3.13 onwards.

After installation of the DKMS module, issue the following commands to reload
the respective modules:

    # rmmod sp5100_tco
    # rmmod w83795 jc42 i2c_piix4
    # modprobe -a i2c_piix4 jc42 w83795

The sensors values can now be accessed using the `sensors` command.

When manually installed, the file `config/modules-load.d/hp-n54l.conf` has to
be copied to `/etc/modules-load.d/hp-n54l.conf` in order to automatically load
the modules after reboot.

The file `config/sensors.d/hp-n54l.conf` configures limits and label names for
`sensors`. Issue `# sensors -s` to reload the file after copying it to
`/etc/sensors.d/hp-n54l.conf`.

The [i2c-piix4 module conflicts with the onboard watchdog](
http://www.spinics.net/lists/linux-i2c/msg23437.html). Therefore it has to be
ensured that `sp5100_tco` is unloaded before loading `i2c_piix4`. The module
should be blacklisted to it from being loaded automatically. This can be
achieved by copying the file `config/modprobe.d/blacklist-n54l-watchdog.conf`
to `/etc/modprobe.d/blacklist-n54l-watchdog.conf`.

## Installation

The modified drivers can be built and installed using DKMS either
manually or through the included Debian package.

### Manual installation with DKMS

DKMS (Dynamic Kernel Module Support) enables generating Linux kernel modules
outside the kernel source tree. It rebuilds the modules automatically
when a new kernel is installed.

The content of this repository has to be copied to
`/usr/src/hp-n54l-<VERSION>`. The following commands install the DKMS
module:

    # dkms add -m hp-n54l -v <VERSION>
    # dkms build -m hp-n54l -v <VERSION>
    # dkms install -m hp-n54l -v <VERSION>

To remove the module:

    # dkms remove -m hp-n54l -v <VERSION>

### Installation of the Debian package

On Debian based distributions `debuild -us -uc` can be used to package
the drivers into a `hp-n54l-dkms\*_all.deb` file which can be installed
using `dpkg -i`.

On Ubuntu the drivers can be installed from the following [Personal Package
Archive (PPA)](https://launchpad.net/~fetzer-ch/+archive/ubuntu/hp-n54l)

## License

Packaging and patches copyright 2015 Christian Fetzer. Kernel modules are part
or Linux. Linux is copyrighted by Linus Torvalds and others.
This project is licensed under the terms of the GNU General Public License
(GPL-2+).
